Strategy Guide
---------------------
Transition A:
This is an introductory level with with many basic Mario enemies. The Fire Flower is the
primary power up and a single vine. Use your fireballs to melt the ice on the brick found
on the ground near the upside Venus Fire Trap. Grab a Koopa's shell nearby to activate the
brick. Climb the vine to the top. Remember you can jump off vines! Follow the pipe to
the first Hammer Bros. coin. When you exit the bonus area, you will fall near the Koopa
you previous used to get to the vine brick. The ending pipe is to the right with a lone
Piranha coming out of it. Be sure to collect the frozen coins to the right before exiting
the stage.


Transition B:
This level introduces the ice flower and water (watch your air meter!). The water here is still and the terrain is hilly. You
can use the ice balls to freeze the water to create an ice bridge, but that is not necessary
for now. When you reach the pile of blue blocks with two grounded ? blocks,
jump into the water and head under and quickly follow the tunnel to grab the Hammer Bros.
coin underneath. Back up top, you can avoid most of the cheep-cheep invested water
with well timed jumps across the bridge. The exit is at the top of the hill at the end of
the stage.

Transition C:
This level introduces rain and wind! The wind effect here does little to your entire momentum,
but standing still you will notice it! If you aren't big at the start of this stage, be sure
to come back with an ice flower. An ice flower is located at the start on the solid blocks.
When you come to the Spikes, use the momentum you gain from them to reach the top of the blocks
for a quick coin bonus. Jump across the water and use ice balls to freeze the lone Goomba.
Use the ice to kick underneath the blue blocks to make the p-switch appear. After activating,
jump to the now-solid blocks above and follow the bridge. Avoid spending time on the coins
here and head right to the blue blocks. A pile of (currently) coins with a Hammer Bros coin
in the middle watis. Nab it! Jump to the right to be on top of some colored blocks. There
is a ? block with a fire flower. Use this and jump to the right to melt some frozen coins
for more of a coin bonus. At the end, follow the platforms down for a safe landing on the
ground. Go right and use the bridges to avoid having to deal with the water. The exit
pipe is under water, but not to far under.

For the second part, we have the wind and rain again and some simple jumps. Each jump gets
longer and there is a pool of water to catch you if you happen to not make the jump. The
last jump has a spinning Buzzy Beetle, so be careful! On the other side of this exit you
will be placed by the only Item Shop in World 1!

Transition D:
This level is littered with small pits of water and solid platforms and some floating logs.
It is also littered with many "fake" pipes that lead you back to the beginning of the level.
These pipes are useful for coming back through here, but annoying otherwise.

Make your way across the first few pits. If you have ice powers, they will come in handy here.
Use ice balls to freeze the bits below the first ? block. Once frozen, grab the fire flower
in the ? block above. Get a running start using your ice bridge and jump to the top of the
ground and jump off of this to the colored block. Keep your running speed up and continue
to jump to each block. At the top is a Hammer Bros. Coin encased in ice. Follow the clouds
down and make a safe landing at the bottom. Keep going right and jump up to the vines
and climb them to the next available vine. Jump from each vine to the next. A Koopa
Paratroopa awaits up at the top with a ? block with a Fire Flower in it. The proper pipe to
enter is at the end with the Piranha Plant. You will exit on the lower right hand corner.

1-Dungeon:
This dungeon contains e-switches. A colored e-switch will activate the corresponding color
blocks. The first three instances are used to introduce you to the concept to build
bridges across the lava. Beware of the Pobodo's and the Dry Piranhas and Dry Fire Traps!
These bony versions are fire proof and tail poorf. If you have a leaf, fly to the top and to
the right to get a coin bonus. Climb the fence over the blocks to find a ? block with a
fire flower inside. Follow the fense down to a 2 thwomp situation. Both 
hops can be made without getting hit by a thwomp. If you made it this far without activating
the orange e-switch, the thwomps will remain trapped by the solid blocks. The Hammer Bros.
coin is in plain site here, but beware! it's inside lava! To reach this, you will have to
come back as Fire Fox Mario, who is impervious to lava.

Follow the fence up, remembering to jump off the fence to reach the higher area. You will
fall on a gray e-switch automatically. Start the first e-switch puzzle. To the right is
two pits, deactivated e-blocks and a Koopa. Grab the shelled Koopa and make your way
to the two e-blocks. Kick your shell to the right so that it bounces into the small opening
the break the brick over the orange e-switch. This may take a couple of tries. Activate
the e-switch and go grab the Koopa gain. If you destroy the Koopa by accident, you can go
down the provided pipe to reset the Koopa. Use the shell to the left of the e-switches
on the now activated orange blocks. It will destroy the brick and you can activate the blue
e-switch. Now head back to the Koopa one final time and use the blue e-switches to carry
the shell to the brick next to the pipe. A P-Switch will activate, allowing you to go down
the layer of bricks. Head right and grab the last power up next to the fences. Climb up and
over the wall. Head right for the first Boom Boom fight.

Do not immediately attack Boom-Boom! He will use a Starman and become invincible temporarily.
You cannot harm him during this time. The starman will eventually wear off and you can finally
attack him. Once Boom-Boom is defeated, a door will appear, allowing you to exit.

World 1 to 2 Transition:

This level introduces us to Ice Bros, Bullies and snow! Before entering the pipe to the 
first area, be sure to fly to the upper left hand corner of the level to grab the Hammer
Bros. coin! After entering the level, to the right contains a Fire Flower in the middle ? 
blocks. To the left are the first pair of Ice Bros. You can use the colored platforms
to easily avoid them. If you get hit by their ice balls, you will be frozen! You have
to press A 8 times to come out of it. Keep heading left. If you are small, you can go
under the wall and get a free power up. Use the color blocks to reach the top, but beware
of Koops above! Follow the platforms down to the bottom. Your next set of Ice Bros.
appear in this area. They are located near pits, so if you're frozen, you may be pushed
into one of them! Keep heading left to get to the second area.

In the second area, you can grab a free Starman if you're small next to the pipe. Head left
but be careful for Bullies are waiting on the slopes. Getting hit by a Bully means being
knocked back and into the air. If they charge, you'll be knocked back even further! Jump
over them as they charge past you. On the second slope, another set of Bullies is waiting,
along with a super leaf in the ? blocks above. if you have the Raccoon ability, get a running
start and fly left until you reach a bridge with free coins. Jump down from here to find
the exit.

If you can't fly, be wary of one last Bully on ice platforms!